Update persist documentation to include Redis as a supported data store (#8838)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: swan-lake/development-tutorials/ballerina-persist/supported-data-stores.md

* In-memory
* Relational databases (MySQL, MSSQL, PostgreSQL)
* Google Sheets [Experimental]
* Redis [Experimental]

There are two ways to use `bal persist`.

> ### Integrating to `bal build`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Integrate to `bal build`
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/63fc8376b7d8d4c2143b8d40ca938a46df3c9a0f

    ```shell
    $ bal persist add --datastore <data_store> --module <module_name>
    ```
   
   > *Note*: If you do not specify the data store, the in-memory data store is used by default.

2. After defining the entities, build the application using the following command,

    ```shell
    $ bal build
    ```

### One time generation

1. Initialize `bal persist` using the following command,

    ```shell
    $ bal persist init
    ```

2. Generate the persist client using the following command,

    ```shell
    $ bal persist generate --datastore <data_store> --module <module_name>
    ```
   > *Note*: Specifying the data store is mandatory and not implicitly configured.

It is recorded in the `Ballerina.toml` file in your project as follows.

```toml
[[tool.persist]]
options.datastore = mysql
...
```
The following sections describe the configurations and supported types for each data store.

## In-memory

The `in-memory` data store is a simple data store that stores data in memory. This data store is useful for testing purposes.

Below are the ways you can provide the data store for each client generation option.

> 1. Integrate the client API generation with the package build. In-memory is the default data store for `bal persist`. Therefore, you do not need to explicitly specify the data store when you are using it with `bal build`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Integrate the client API generation with the package build. 
The default data store used in the package build is the in-memory data store. Therefore, you do not need to specify the data store explicitly when using it with `bal build`.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/e877ebe9b90d5bbdf499dcb00c65476a68809b3f

- int
- float
- decimal
- string
- time:Date
- time:TimeOfDay
- time:Utc
- time:Civil

### Configuration

You need to set values for the following basic configuration parameters in the `Config.toml` file in your project to use the Redis data store.

| Parameter  |             Description              |
|:----------:|:------------------------------------:|
| connection | The connection URI of the DB server. |

The following is a sample `Config.toml` file with the Redis data store configuration. This is generated by the `persist generate` command.

```toml
[<packageName>.<moduleName>.redis]
connection = "redis://localhost:6379"
```

Alternatively, you can provide connection parameters instead of `URI` as follows.
```toml
[<packageName>.<moduleName>.redis.connection]
host = "localhost"
port = 6379
```

Additionally, you can set values for the advanced configuration parameters in the Config.toml file in your project to use the Redis data store. For more information on these parameters, see the [Redis Connector documentation](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/redis/latest#ConnectionConfig).

> ### How to set up

Reviewer 2: Would it be better use the heading as `Setup guide`?

Author: Yes, It's better to have that. I have addressed this in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/29131f97d9abca7093bac3ef255af9635d96edc4

    3. For step 1 under the  `Select & authorize APIs` section, select the required scopes for the API you are going to use. 
    4. Proceed with the necessary Google account validation steps. 
    5. Click **Exchange authorization code for tokens** to obtain the refresh and access tokens.

## Redis [Experimental]

> The Redis data store is a key-value-based in-memory data store. It is useful for storing unstructured data and retrieving them quickly. It is not the default data store for `bal persist`. Therefore, you need to explicitly specify the data store when initializing `bal persist` in your application as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Redis data store is a key-value-based inmemory datastore useful for storing and retrieving unstructured data quickly. It is not the default data store for `bal persist`. Therefore, you need to explicitly specify the data store when initializing `bal persist` in your application as follows.
```

Author: I have fixed this in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/30d2d23c3fff8d3e9873f7d41128ccf8d49eb002

Reviewer: As in the Redis website https://redis.io/, It is `in-memory` data store. Shall we keep it as `in-memory`

```shell
$ bal persist init --datastore redis
```

### Supported Ballerina types

The Redis data store supports the following Ballerina types. As we have utilized `hash` and `set` as Redis data types to store objects, the following data types will be converted to `string`.

- int
- float
- decimal
- string
- time:Date
- time:TimeOfDay
- time:Utc
- time:Civil
- enum

### Configuration

You need to set values for the following basic configuration parameters in the `Config.toml` file in your project to use the Redis data store.

| Parameter  |             Description              |
|:----------:|:------------------------------------:|
| connection | The connection URI of the DB server. |

The following is a sample `Config.toml` file with the Redis data store configuration. This is generated by the `persist generate` command.

```toml
[<packageName>.<moduleName>.redis]
connection = "redis://localhost:6379"
```

Alternatively, you can provide connection parameters instead of `URI` as follows.

```toml
[<packageName>.<moduleName>.redis.connection]
host = "localhost"
port = 6379
```

> Additionally, you can set values for the advanced configuration parameters in the Config.toml file in your project to use the Redis data store. For more information on these parameters, see the [Redis Connector documentation](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/redis/latest#ConnectionConfig).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can set values for the advanced configuration parameters in the `Config.toml` file in your project to use the Redis data store. For more information on these parameters, see the [Redis Connector documentation](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/redis/latest#ConnectionConfig).
```

Author: I have fixed this in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/30d2d23c3fff8d3e9873f7d41128ccf8d49eb002

### Setup guide

#### Setup a Redis server instance

Select one of the methods below to set up a Redis server.

- Install a Redis server on your machine locally by downloading and installing it based on your development platform. See the [official Redis documentation](https://redis.io/download/).
- Use Docker to create a DB server deployment.
   1. Install Docker on your machine if you haven't already.

>    2. Pull the Redis Docker image from Docker Hub using the command `docker pull redis`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   2. Pull the Redis Docker image from Docker Hub using the command. `docker pull redis`
```

Reviewer 3: Move the command to the next line.

>    3. Run the Redis container as follows `docker run -d -p 6379:6379 --name <container-name> redis`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   3. Run the Redis container as follows. `docker run -d -p 6379:6379 --name <container-name> redis`.
```

Reviewer 3: Add the command to the next line.

Author: I have moved the commands into separate blocks in here https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/01a0fbe02d78635abd79c12db5ec3562254a9bc3

- Use a cloud-based DB solution such as Google’s Cloud, Amazon’s Web Services, or Microsoft’s Azure database.
   1. Visit [Redis cloud console](https://app.redislabs.com).

>    2. Log in using email and password or using one of the Single Sign-On options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   2. Log in using email and password or using one of the single sign-On options.
```

Author: I have fixed this in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/01a0fbe02d78635abd79c12db5ec3562254a9bc3

   3. Choose either Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, or Microsoft Azure as the database provider.
   4. Select a region and create the database.

>    5. Find your `username`, `password` and the `public endpoint`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   5. Find your `username`, `password` and the `public endpoint`.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/01a0fbe02d78635abd79c12db5ec3562254a9bc3

>    6. Replace the `connection` parameter in `Config.toml` file as below

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   6. Replace the `connection` parameter in `Config.toml` file as below.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/01a0fbe02d78635abd79c12db5ec3562254a9bc3

      ```toml

>       connection = "redis://<username>:<password>@<public_endpoint>"

Reviewer 3: Missing closing backticks?

Author: Closing back-ticks are not necessary since it's the end of the page, however, I have added closing back-ticks here https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/01a0fbe02d78635abd79c12db5ec3562254a9bc3

1. Get the `clientID` and `ClientSecret` by following the [guidelines](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2).
2. Follow the steps below to add https://developers.google.com/oauthplayground if you want to use OAuth 2.0 playground to receive the authorization code, access token, and refresh token.

    1. Go to the OAuth 2.0 playground and click **Settings** on the top right-hand side. 
    2. Select **Use your own OAuth credentials** and provide the client ID and client secret obtained. 
    3. For step 1 under the  `Select & authorize APIs` section, select the required scopes for the API you are going to use. 
    4. Proceed with the necessary Google account validation steps. 
    5. Click **Exchange authorization code for tokens** to obtain the refresh and access tokens.

## Redis [Experimental]

> The Redis data store is a key-value-based inmemory datastore useful for storing and retrieving unstructured data quickly. It is not the default data store for `bal persist`. Therefore, you need to explicitly specify the data store when initializing `bal persist` in your application as follows.
> 
> ```shell
> $ bal persist init
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Redis data store is a key-value-based in-memory datastore useful for quickly storing and retrieving unstructured data. It is not the default data store for `bal persist`. Therefore, you need to specify the data store explicitly when generating the bal persist client APIs for Redis DB.

Below are the ways you can provide the data store for each client generation option

1. Integrate the client code generation with the package build.
```shell
$ bal persist add --datastore redis
\```

2. One-time generation of the client code against the data model.
```shell
$ bal persist generate --datastore redis
\```
```

Reviewer: remove the \ at the end of command snippet

Reviewer: Can you update this in other data stores?

Author: I have update this for all data stores in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/c58208f496cbc3a70a6a1004d543b8de8bb8eed9

    1. Go to the OAuth 2.0 playground and click **Settings** on the top right-hand side. 
    2. Select **Use your own OAuth credentials** and provide the client ID and client secret obtained. 
    3. For step 1 under the  `Select & authorize APIs` section, select the required scopes for the API you are going to use. 
    4. Proceed with the necessary Google account validation steps. 
    5. Click **Exchange authorization code for tokens** to obtain the refresh and access tokens.

## Redis [Experimental]

The Redis data store is a key-value-based inmemory datastore useful for storing and retrieving unstructured data quickly. It is not the default data store for `bal persist`. Therefore, you need to explicitly specify the data store when initializing `bal persist` in your application as follows.

```shell
$ bal persist init
```

### Supported Ballerina types

The Redis data store supports the following Ballerina types. As we have utilized `hash` and `set` as Redis data types to store objects, the following data types will be converted to `string`.

- int
- float
- decimal
- string
- time:Date
- time:TimeOfDay
- time:Utc
- time:Civil
- enum

### Configuration

> You need to set values for the following basic configuration parameters in the `Config.toml` file in your project to use the Redis data store.

Reviewer 3: while this says `following basic configuration parameters` it only lists one parameter in the table. If it is only a single parameter , do we really need a table below?

Author: There are 4 parameters in total,

- `connection`
- `connectionPooling`
- `isClusterConnection`
- `secureSocket`

Default values have been set for `connection`, `connectionPooling`, and `isClusterConnection` in the Redis connector itself, and the parameter `secureSocket` is an optional parameter. The reason we're giving the `connection` parameter in `Config.toml` is that it's easy for the user to replace the connection URI in case of a cloud-hosted database instance. Users may need to use values other than the default values for parameters `connectionPooling` and `isClusterConnectionj` as well. In that case, having a table is more cleaner in my opinion. Any suggestions to solve this?

Author: I think I've misunderstood the question. This is regarding the table in the markdown file, right? Yes, in that case, we don't need a table here. I'll make the necessary changes.

Author: This has been fixed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/4612960007eaacc7c43ef86420f1bddaf4b13c74

host = "localhost"
port = 6379
```

Additionally, you can set values for the advanced configuration parameters in the `Config.toml` file in your project to use the Redis data store. For more information on these parameters, see the [Redis Connector documentation](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/redis/latest#ConnectionConfig).

### Setup guide

#### Setup a Redis server instance

Select one of the methods below to set up a Redis server.

- Install a Redis server on your machine locally by downloading and installing it based on your development platform. See the [official Redis documentation](https://redis.io/download/).
- Use Docker to create a DB server deployment.
   1. Install Docker on your machine if you haven't already.
   2. Pull the Redis Docker image from Docker Hub using the following command.

      ```
      $ docker pull redis
      ```
   
   3. Run the Redis container as follows.
   
      ```
      $ docker run -d -p 6379:6379 --name <container-name> redis
      ```
   
- Use a cloud-based DB solution such as Google’s Cloud, Amazon’s Web Services, or Microsoft’s Azure database.
   1. Visit [Redis cloud console](https://app.redislabs.com).

>    2. Log in using email and password or using one of the single sign-On options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   2. Log in using email and password or using one of the single sign-on options.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/8838/commits/4612960007eaacc7c43ef86420f1bddaf4b13c74
